...wiki...

...Topic 1...

What is data?
  Info in raw/unorganised form

Database
  Shared collection of logically related data and its description

Why is database important?
  Allows us to organize,store and retrieve data according to our individual needs.

How was data stored in the past?
  Flat files 

Files based approach
  (apps used file-based approach-
  Program code
  (data definition, file handling routines, business logic)
  )

Limitations
  Separation and isolation of data
    each program maintains its own set of data(not centrally located...harded to access)

  Duplication of data
    uncontrolled duplication(more $, more space, loss of data integrity as less consistent)

  Data dependence
    file structure defined in code(hard to change file structure)
  
  Incompatible file formats
    different programming languages

  Fixed queries/proliferation of programs


Solution
  Database approach via DBMS

What is DBMS?
  Software system to define,create,maintain and control access to database
  DBMS is the gateway between application program and database

Enterprise Database Systems


File-based vs DB
  data vs data+metadata
  each program manage own data vs shared by many programs
  
The 5 components of DBMS
  1. Machines(Hardware,Software)
  2. Bridge(data + metadata)
  3. Human(Procedures,People)

MYSQL workbench***


Advantages of DBMS
  control of data reduncancy
  improved data consistency
  improved sharing of data
  improved data integrity
  improved security
  
Disadvantages of DBMS
  complexity
  size
  cost of DBMS (DBMS license, maintenance)
  cost of additional hardware
  cost of conversion
  
Roles
  data admin
  database admin
  database designer
  developer
  end user

Database (program-data independent)


...Topic 2...
Database modelling

Architecture of a DMBS
External level == the way users perceive the data

Conceptual level == provides the mapping and desired independence 
                    between the external and internal levels

Internal Level -- the way the dbms and the os perceive the data


the 3 level-schemas are only descriptions of data
the only data that actually exists is at the physical level


External level
User's view of the database.
This level describes part of the database that is relevant to each user.


Conceptual level
Community view of the database.
This level describes what data is stored in the database and the relationships among
the data. It contains the logical structure of the entire database


Internal level
Physical represantation of the database.
This level describes how the data is stored in the database. (as perceived by dbms and os)
It includes physical implementation of the database to achieve optimal runtime performance
and storage space utilization.
It includes the data structures and file organizations used to store data on storage devices.


Why the three level architecture?
To separate user's view of the database from the way the databse is physically represented.

Why separate?
1. Each user should be able to access the same data with a customized view of data.
2. Users should have to deal direction with physical database storage details(indexing and hashing)
3. Internal structure of database should not be affected by changed to the physical storage
4. DB admin should be able to change the database storage structure without affecting
   users' view
5. DB should change the conceptual structure of the DB without affecting all users.(eg adding
   new fields to the table, changing the length of a field)
   
Basically, separate due to DATA INDEPENDENCE. (upper levels are unaffected 
by changes to lower levels)

Database schema: overall description(or structure) of DB
DBMS is responsible for mapping between these three types of scheme.

Database instance: data in the databse at any point in time

Data models: integration collection of concepts for describing and manipulating data,
relationships of data and constraints.

3 broad categories
1. object based (conceptual and external level)
2. record based (conceptual and external level)
3. physical (internal level)

object-based data models use concepts such at entities,attributes and relationships.
Object-oriented = extends defintion of an entity to include both state(attribures) and
behavior(methods). The object is said to encapsule both state and behavior.


record based data model = fixed-format records, fixed number of fields.
1. hierrarchical data model
2. network data model
3. relational data model


hierarchical (one to many)
-- cannot merge several branches

network data model (each child can have multiple parents)
-- more flexible but hard to implement

relational data model
-- relate files by a common field (based on concept of mathematical relations)


foreign key: links two tables together
Simply put, a foreign key is a set of attributes in a table that refers to the primary key of another table. The foreign key links these two tables. Wikipedia


conceptual modeling / conceptual db design
is the process of constructing a model of the information used in an enterprise that is
independent of implementation details


purpose:
1. assist in understanding of the meaning of the data
2. to facilitate communication about the information requirements


approaches:
1. top-down(entity relationship model)
2. bottom-up (normalization)

database design involves a model of the data in an enterprise

conceptual db design:
process of constructing a model of the information used in an enterprise that is independent
of implemention details.


entity: physical object or concept in your business env (impt data that you want to store)
attributes: distinct properties of an entity or a relationship
relationship: an association between entities


steps:
1. identify imp data called entities
2. identify relationships (meaningful assoiciations) between the enities.
3. determine the attributes(properties) of the entites and relationships.

entity type:
group of objections with the same properties, identified by enterprise as having 
an independent existence.

entity occurence: 
uniquely indentifiable object of an entity type

entity types can have physical/conceptual existence.

relationship type: 
a set of meaningful associations

degree of relationship type:
binary: degree 2
ternary: degree 3
quarternary: degree 4

