Normalization 
  is a technique for producing a set of tables with
  desirable properties, given the data requirements of an
  enterprise.

  is a formal method that can be used to identify
  relations based on their keys and the functional dependencies
  among their attributes. 

Objectives
  to increase the integrity of the database design
  to maximize flexibility of data storage
  
Characteristics
  1. the minimal number of attributes necessary
  2. attributes that are logically related (described as functional dependency)
     in the same table
  3. minimal data redundancy

Why is storing redundant data bad? 
  Redundant data can cause update anomalies
  problems :
  1. Insertion anomalies
      a situation in which you cannot insert new data into
      a database because of an unrelated dependency. 
  2. Deletion anomalies
  3. Modification anomalies

Topic : Summary
  • Normalization is bottom-up approach to database design. It is a
  technique for producing a set of tables, given the data requirements of an
  enterprise.
  • Normalization is a formal method that can be used to identify relations
  based on their keys and the functional dependencies among their
  attributes.
  • Normalization is the process of organizing data in order to reduce data
  redundancy by dividing a database into two or more tables and then
  defining table relationships. 
  • Relations with data redundancy suffer from update anomalies, which can
  be classified as insertion, deletion and modification anomalies.
  • Normalization consists of a series of rules that must be applied in steps to
  reach a “higher” level of normalization. These levels are called normal
  forms. The IT industry considers normalization to the 3NF an acceptable
  level to remove redundancy.
  • Unnormalized Form (UNF) is a table that contains one or more repeating
  groups.
  • First Normal Form (1NF) is a relation in which the intersection of each
  row and column (i.e. each “cell”) contains one and only one value.
  • Second Normal Form (2NF) is a relation that is in 1st normal form and
  every non-primary-key attribute is fully functionally dependent on the
  primary key (i.e. there are no partial dependencies in 2NF tables).
  • Third Normal Form (3NF) is a relation that is in 1st and 2nd normal form in
  which no non-primary-key attribute is transitively dependent on the
  primary key. 
