=== Business Information Systems ===

What is a system?
  A system can be defined as a collection of interrelated components that
  work together towards a collective goal.
  The function of a system is to receive inputs and transform them into outputs.

What are the 5 components of a system and their roles?
  1. Input
      Raw materials for a process that will produce a particular output.
  2. Process
      Inputs are turned into outputs by a transformation process.
  3. Output
      Product created by a system
  4. Feedback mechanism
      Provides information on the performance of the system which can be used to
      adjust its behavior.
  5. Control mechanism


Role of Information System?
  To support managers in making decisions that will help the organization to
  function properly and achieve its objectives. Control is being exercised correctly if
  the organization is moving towards its objectives as efficiently as possible.

Open-loop control system
  Attempt to reach the system objective, but no action is taken to modify the process
  or its input to achieve the targets once the process begun.

Closed-loop control system
  1. Feedback control
      Responds to changes in the system or its environment after they have taken place
  2. Feedforward control
      Predict likely changes so that any delays before taking action are minimized. 

Types of Systems
  1. Deterministic and Probabilistic Systems
  2. Adaptive Systems
  3. Hard and Soft Systems


1. A system is a collection of interrelated components that work together towards
   a collective goal. It receives inputs and transforms them into outputs.
2. Input, Process, Output, Feedback, and Control. 
3. Information systems help managaers make decisions that help the organization to
   to funciton effectively and achieve its goals.
4. Open-loop system attempts to reach the system objective but no action is taken
   to change the process/input to achieve the objective when process starts. Closed-loop
   provides feedback/feedforward control.
5. Deterministic and probabilistic, adaptive, hard and soft. 
6. Business IS is used to support functional areas of a business.
7. IT refers to the technology while IS refers to how IT is used to contribute to
   the business.
8. BIS have become widespread as most organizations today make use of IT.
9. BIS can be used in many ways. Some examples are executive IS, decision support
   and office automation systems.
10. Operation IS involves improving communication and productivity.
    Management IS involves providing feedback to complement managerial decision making.
11. Cost leadership is provide G&S at minimal cost.
12. Differentiation is differentiating own product from competitors.
13. Innovation is discovering new ways to boost product or organization.
14. Focus is catering to a niche market.
15. The 5 competitive forces are: threat of new entrants, bargaining power of
    suppliers, bargaining power of consumers, threat of substitutes and rivalry
    among competitors.
16. The 6 ways to get a strategic advantage are improving operational efficency,
    raising barriers to entry, locking in customers and suppliers, promoting business
    innovation, increasing switching costs and lastly via leverage.
