Information Systems
  1. input
  2. process
  3. output
  4. feedback

  Eg. ATM
        input: pin/card
        process: authentication/type of transaction
        output: cash/receipt 
        feedback: wrong pin/incorrect amount/amount exceeding -> back to input
  

Existing systems vs New systems
  Hard copy vs LMS
  Manual vs Safe entry
  Hanis cafe vs App to order
  Customs Officer vs Customs Officer/Biometrics/Facial recognition
  
Flowchart
  Tool: Draw.io
  Oval: Start + End

What is data?
  Data is a collection of non-random raw facts recorded by observation or research.
  Eg. 65,86,52
  
What is information?
  Processed data -> Make decisions
  Eg. 
  
DIKW
  Decision
  Information
  Knowledge
  Wisdom
  
Transformation Process
  A number of different transformation can be used to transform data
  into information.
  1. Classification
  2. Rearranging/sorting
  3. Aggregating
  4. Performing calculation
  5. Selection

Value of information
  Tangible
    Financial value
  Intangible
    Experience
    
All business org operate in a business environment.

Levels of Managerial Decision Making
  1. Strategic (long term eg.relocation)
  2. Tactical (medium term eg.performance/budgets/new dept)
  3. Operational (short term eg. day-to-day stuff)

The Decision Making Process
  1. Intelligence
  2. Design
  3. Choice
  4. Implementation
  5. Evaluation
  
  Important points:
    1. Important t recognize that infor plays a critical part in arriving
       at an effective and successful decision
    2. The information required to support the decision-making process is
       determined by the decision itself. Decision needs determine information needs.

Decision Making Theory

Knowledge Management


What is the difference between Data and Information?
  Data is a collection of non-random raw facts recorder by observation or research.
  Information is processed data that helps make decisions.

How is information transformed from data?
  Classicfication, rearranging/sorting, aggregating, performing calculation,selection

Why modern orgs rely heavily on information and communication technologies?
  Orgs are able to make informed decisions.

What are the three levels of information?
  Strategic, tactical,operational

How business IS can assist at different stages of the decision making process?
  Business IS can help to arrive at an effective and successful decision. Moreover,
  decision needs help to determine information needs.

What is decision making theory?
  Decision making abides by business rules. These rules are the event that triggers
  the rule, the testable condition and the necessary further action to be taken.

What is knowledege management?
  KM is a range of activities that that ensure a business uses its IT resources
  as effectively as possible.
